Here at XTND we created a website that is for providing people with the best tech at the best price that is available. We decided that this would be good for the world because of how grand and intimidating the world of tech can be. So with this website we aim to solve this issue by giving the people a much more condensed medium that allows people to shop without feeling overwhelmed.  

In this documentation we are going to go over the technicals on how we used one of our groupmates Project one and build upon it to make it more dynamic. By adding data components that consisted of using nodeJS and express to better improve the functionality of the website. We also successfully established a connection to a database in order to take the website to the next level by being able to hold user data like order and account information.

Template - The template used for the entire site (temp3.dwt) was created by us, and it set the font in the body, which contained the editable region where every other pages' html code went. Within that template, though, we used a template for the navigation bar from W3 schools. With Bootstrap, a navigation bar can extend or collapse, depending on the screen size. This standard navigation bar is created with nav class="navbar navbar-default". It uses css from

MongoDB database - We wanted to be able to have a place to store the critical information of our customers such as account info and orders. Naturally this would mean that we need a database. After doing careful and thoughtful research we came to the conclusion that we wanted to go with mongoDB. Under controllers we created database.js where we did all of the communication with our database. our saveCustomerToMongoDB, newAccount, and storeOrder functions add the respective data to our database collections in their own document. and the verifyLogin, getorder, and autofill pull from the database and pass the information to the routers in the form of an array for validation/display. We then created the databaseConnection.js in order to make sure that it connected with the mongoDB account correctly.

createAccount.html - For create account we wanted to receive form information dynamically. One way to achieve this is to use nodeJS and express. We concocted some code that would validate and make sure that the information that it receives adheres to the parameters that we want. We also made sure that we were able to create users in our mongo db database. We also made sure to reject and inform the user in case that the information they provided was already in use.

account.html - For account we made a login form that is stylized well with the previously mentioned css. We also made sure that we verified the information that was provided in order to ensure that it is inside of the users collection. We did this by calling on the verifylogin function that we made under database.js.

product pages + shopping - In the previous project that was used as a base for this one we did not have the ability to add things into a cart. We felt as though we needed to add this because it makes the website so much more dynamic. For this we used a router.get so that we could display the shop page and also so that it could render the template so that we could pass the array into it. This allows us to display the shop page and all of the items that are available for purchase. We then used a render.post that intakes a productID in the request body. The route handler finds the product that corresponds to the productID that was given and adds that to the user's session’s cart. We also added a counter to the navbar in order to visually show the user how many things are in their cart. 

cart - For the cart we wanted to make sure that It worked correctly because it's one of the most important parts of the website. This is where people go when they have committed to buying something from us. That last thing that we would want is for a user to have a bad experience with the cart because this part should be seamless and informational. Thus we wanted to make sure that all the correct values were shown so we used arithmetic in nodeJS and express in order to pull this off. We also used this to make sure that the user could add and remove any item from the cart. 

Checkout - For the shopping cart we wanted to make sure that the cart was not empty by checking the middleware session.cart variable where the cart information is stored in the form of an array. We also show a message telling the user that the cart is in fact empty. We made sure to store the billing information of the user that is checking out in mongoDB. It was of the utmost importance that our form was organized in a way that was easily readable for the user.  The email of the user is stored to the session after login. We are then able to use this information of the users that are logged to be  able to autofill all of the pertinent information when they are checking out.
